when Bayan kti posted an Instagram story
on October 8th she claims she intended
no connection to the Hamas Terror
attacks the day
before this post visible to around 20 of
her close friends turned her life upside
down it showed a bubbling Skillet of
shakshuka with the caption we will soon
be eating the victory shakshuka and a
Palestinian flag Emoji
can
vict it's my
victory but what she says she thought
was Private wasn't a classmate saw
bayan's post claimed it meant she
supported Hamas and passed it on 17 days
later the police arrested her for
incitement her University suspended her
from classes and threw her out of her
dorm other students sent her hostile
messages Hass jabarin runs Adela an
advocacy group for Israel's Arab
minority he tells me they've seen cases
like Bayan surge dramatically since
October 7th jabarin says the vast
majority of people involved have not
broken the law rather that the way of
arrests is deliberate repression aimed
at silencing Palestinian citizens of
Israel the Israeli police told us it is
committed to the fundamental right of
freedom of speech
but that it is also imperative to
address those who exploit this right to
incite violence especially during times
of war against a cruel terrorist
organization to many Palestinian
citizens of Israel the Crackdown is not
only an issue of fundamental rights in
many of Israel's mixed towns and cities
like the one I'm at right now
Palestinian and Jewish citizens have
been living side by side for decades but
since the October 7th Hamas attacks on
Israel Palestinians here tell me they
feel their loyalties are being called
into question in a way that they have
never experienced
before abir beer is a Palestinian
Israeli civil rights
lawyer
she represents Abu a well-known
Palestinian folk singer Abu Amna was
arrested after posting a Palestinian
flag emoji with the Arabic motto there's
no Victor but God abier gave this
account of what happened when she went
to the police station on behalf of her
client
to the arrest of such a prominent figure
in Israel's Palestinian Community sent a
message
after her release Abu Amna wrote they
tried to strip me of my Humanity silence
my voice and humiliate me in every way
it didn't stop there abir tells us the
singer is now plagued by right-wingers
demonstrating outside her
[Music]
home she's just one of many Palestinian
Israelis whose Brief Encounters with
Israeli police on minor matters have had
far-reaching consequences
this is Yuki's humus shop in Nazareth he
put a Palestinian flag with a fist onto
his WhatsApp status police officers
arrested him and he spent a night in
jail student Bayan KB's future is on
hold she was never indicted by
prosecutors but her University's
disciplinary committee found her in
violation of its code of conduct and
she's now waiting to see if she'll be
expelled I ask her what she fears the
most
fore
fore she's one of many Palestinian
citizens of Israel who feel their rights
are being restricted in the broader
aftermath of the October 7th
attacks and let's bring in special
correspondent Aya Ibrahim who filed that
report Aya how widespread are these
arrests for posts on social
media well we did try to get some
numbers from the Israeli police uh they
didn't provide us any numbers but did
provide us with that statement that we
just mentioned in uh the report
according to rights groups there are
varying numbers the numbers are the
arrests connected to social media posts
are uh thought to be in uh the hundreds
um but according to Adela the NGO uh
that I interviewed the director of for
for the piece the phenomenon is
particularly sort of um observable in
University campuses the Adel alone is
rep Adel alone represents around 90
students at 34 colleges and universities
who in the direct aftermath of October
7th were arrested uh in connection to
similar social media posts but what
people have been telling me throughout
reporting this it's it's not so much uh
the number or the or the the the the
quantity it's more of the the sort of
the the mood and the and the message
that these arrests send and what people
have been telling me is that this is
very chilling and terrifying for uh the
Palestinian Israeli Community because as
we saw in this report it may be a post
that you know rightfully offends some
people but the consequences for uh for
the people who've posted them even if
they've been found not to have broken
any laws can be dire I mean this
students is is now waiting to see if she
will lose her place of study she's
almost done with uh studying data
science at one of the country's most
prestigious universities and so it's the
chilling effect of it uh that I think is
disturbing for many in the community
it's also important to mention that it's
not just AR Palestinian Israelis that
have been arrested there have been a
handful of um of of cases of Jewish
Israelis as well who have had to face
arrest interrogation in connection with
posts that particularly sympathize with
uh people in in in in Gaza authorities
see see it differently but these are U
much uh much less in really a handful of
cases that have been reported about in
the media okay and and can you tell us
how um you know more broadly speaking
the Israeli Arab Community um how it has
been reacting to the October 7th Terror
attacks and the war on
Gaza I think as we try to sort of show
in this report is that you know we're
talking about a community that has been
part of Israel for Generations uh the
Palestinian Arab Community these are
descendants of Palestinians who were uh
living here uh but did not flee sort of
in in the war fought over uh Israel
independ Israel's independence so they
are part of this country they speak the
language they have jobs they're fully
integrated they do according to
interviews that I've done face
discrimination um daily discrimination
but legally they are citizens and so of
course there's a measure of loyalty to
Israel but at the same time they are uh
Palestinian in their identity and they
you know relate to the larger
Palestinian uh Community globally if you
will be that in the West Bank in Gaza or
even across the world and so they do
feel like their loyalties are often
being questioned and any slight
expression of that identity may be
misinterpreted and so it's a difficult
and chilling time for that Community as
well in what is an extremely tense and
difficult time for Israeli Society
remember this is absolutely the most
violent terror attack in the history of
this country and it's a country that has
been through uh you know many phases of
violence so it's a tense um uh mood uh
everywhere even more than three months
into the war but particularly for that
uh uh minority they are at times as they
have told me seen as the Enemy Within
when they've been here for Generations
special correspondent AA Ibrahim in
Jerusalem thank
you